SHIFT CIPHER

  (let x=position of letter n=shift/key 0<=n<=25,
  for encryption:(x+n)mod26, for decryption:(x-n)mod26)
  Aim:A private-key encryption scheme consists of a set of all possible messages, called the message space M, and three algorithms, namely,
  (a) Gen
  (b) Enc
  (c) Dec
    The algorithm for key generation Gen is used to choose a key k at random from the set of all possible secert keys, denoted by the key space K.
    The algorithm for encryption Enc takes as inputs the message m and the secret key k and outputs the ciphertext c.
    The algorithm for decryption Dec inputs the ciphertext c and the key k and outputs the message m.
  About the experiment:
    Apparently, the system is easily broken if the total number of distinct secret keys is small, that is the key space K is small.
    In this experiment, we work with a well-known historical encryption scheme, namely the shift cipher, that has a very small key space.
    Your task is to break the shift cipher. Specifically, given (only) the ciphertext in some instance of a shift cipher, you need to find the plaintext and the secret key.
  Procedure:
    STEP 1 : For the given ciphertext in the PART I of the simulation page, the first step is to decrypt it using each of the twenty-six different keys, k=0,1,...,25 and obtain the corresponding plaintexts. For decryption, you may use the tool given in the PART III of the simulation page.
    STEP 2 : After each decryption, you may cut-and-paste the resultant plaintext in the scratch-pad in the (PART II) of the simulation page, if you need to remember it.
    STEP 3 : Finally, observe the plaintexts and choose the most appropriate one (the one that is a meaningful English text) as the recovered plaintext and cut-and-paste it in the text-field named PART IV "Solution Plaintext". Also select the corresponding key in the text-field named "Key" and click on "Check My answer" Button.
    STEP 4 [OPTIONAL] : Verify that your answer is correct, by encrypting the solution plaintext with your key.
  An Example:
    Let us say we have a cipher text "KRZ DUH BRX" generated by a shift cipher. We carry out the brute force attack as follows:
    For k=0:
    cipher text: K R Z D U H B R X
          plain text: k r z d u h b r x       
    For k=1:
    cipher text: K R Z D U H B R X
          plain text: j q y c t g a q w       
    For k=2:
    cipher text: K R Z D U H B R X
          plain text: l p x b s f z p v        
    For k=3:
    cipher text: K R Z D U H B R X
          plain text: h o w a r e y o u
          
Monoalphabetic cipher:
  Aim:We are able to break the shift cipher because of it's small key space. In general, we learnt that the large key space is necesary for secrecy. However, we will now see that large key space is not always sufficient either.
  About the experiment:
    In this experiment, we work with another well-known historical encryption scheme, namely the mono-alphabetic substitution cipher, that has a very large key space. However, it is quite easily broken using "Frequency analysis" methods. Your task is to break this cipher. Specifically, given (only) the ciphertext in some instance of a mono alphabetic substitution cipher, you need to find the plaintext and the secret key.

  Theory:
    Consider we have the plain text "cryptography". By using the substitution table below, we can encrypt our plain text as follows: abc def gh i j k l mno pqr s t u vwx yz
    JI BRKTCNOFQYG AUZHSVWMXL DEP
    plain text: c r y p t o g r a p h y
    cipher text: B S E Z W U C S J Z N E
    Hence we obtain the cipher text as "BSEZWUCSJZNE".
    Cryptanalysis
      Note that the frequency of occurrence of characters in the plaintext is "preserved" in the ciphertext. For instance, the most frequent character in the ciphertext is likely to be the encryption of the plaintext character "e" which is the most frequently occurring charecter in English. For a very brief theory of the mono-alphabetic substitution cipher and its cryptanalysis, click here

   Procedure:
    STEP 1 : For the given ciphertext in the PART I of the experiment page, the first step is to generate ciphertext by clicking on the "Next CipherText" button.
    STEP 2 : Calculate frequencies of generated ciphertext by clicking on "Calculate Frequencies in Ciphertext" button
    STEP 3 : Copy the generated ciphertext from PART I and paste in "Scratchpad" area of PART II
    STEP 4 : Analyse similarties between "Calculated Frequencies Table" and "English Alphabet Frequencies Table"
    STEP 5 : Based on similarities,try to make a frequency based estimation for each character of ciphertext
    STEP 6 : Replace characters of CipherText in Scratchpad with a character estimated previously using a Modify function of PART II
    STEP 7 : Based on Hints from Ciphertext in "Scratchpad" area make more replacement of ciphertext characters
    STEP 8 : Repeat Step 7 till you get a meaningful English Text
    STEP 9 : Finally, observe the deciphered plaintext in Scratchpad Area,if a meaningful English text is formed cut-and-paste it in the text-field named "Solution Plaintext" of PART III. Also enter the final character mapping in the"Solution Key" in PART III and click on "Check Answer" button.
    STEP 10[OPTIONAL] : Verify that your answer is correct, by encrypting the solution plaintext with your key in PART IV.         
