Firewall:
    A firewall is a system designed to prevent unauthorized access to or from a private network.
  You can implement a firewall in either hardware or software form, or a combination of both.
  Generally the firewall has two network interfaces: one for the external side of the network,
  one for the internal side. Its purpose is to control what traffic is allowed to traverse from one
  side to the other. As the most basic level, firewalls can block traffic intended for particular
  IP addresses or server ports.
    TCP network traffic moves around a network in packets, which are containers that consist of
  a packet header—this contains control information such as source and destination addresses,
  and packet sequence information—and the data (also known as a payload). While the
  control information in each packet helps to ensure that its associated data gets delivered
  properly, the elements it contains also provides firewalls a variety of ways to match packets
  against firewall rules.
  
Types of Firewalls
  Three basic types of network firewalls: 
    packet filtering (stateless), stateful, and application layer.
  1.Packet filtering, or stateless, firewalls work by inspecting individual packets in isolation.
  As such, they are unaware of connection state and can only allow or deny packets based on
  individual packet headers.
  2.Stateful firewalls are able to determine the connection state of packets, which makes them
  much more flexible than stateless firewalls. They work by collecting related packets until
  the connection state can be determined before any firewall rules are applied to the traffic.
  3.Application firewalls go one step further by analyzing the data being transmitted, which
  allows network traffic to be matched against firewall rules that are specific to individual
  services or applications. These are also known as proxy-based firewalls.
  
Basic of iptables
  Iptables is a firewall, installed by default on all official Ubuntu distributions (Ubuntu,
  Kubuntu, Xubuntu). When you install Ubuntu, iptables is there, but it allows all traffic by
  default.
    The rules in IPTables are written to deal 3 different scenarios:
      1.Those packets entering your machine that are destined for your machine. (INPUT)
      2.Those packets leaving your machine. (OUTPUT)
      3.Those packets entering your machine, but are destined for another machine and will pass
        through your machine (FORWARD).
    In Iptables, these scenarios are referred to as INPUT, OUTPUT, and FORWARD,respectively.
  Once the traffic type has been specified, three actions may be taken:
    1.ACCEPT allows packets to pass through the firewall.
    2.DROP ignores the packet and sends no response to the request.
    3.REJECT ignores the packet, but responds to the request with a packet denied msg.
    
Types of Iptables(building chains)
    1.Filter(in/out/for)    2.Nat(pre,post,for)     3.Mangle(in,out,for,pre,post)    4.Raw(pre,out)

Opts:-
    -A: Append this rule in chain
    -p: connection protocol used
    -j: Jump to specified target

COMMANDS=>
    1.List the current filter rules- iptables -L
    2.View contents of tables- iptables -t filter --list
                               iptables -t nat --list
    3.Allowing Incoming traffic on specidic ports
          Appending in iptable in INPUT targetting DROP - iptables -A INPUT -j ACCEPT
              (To check run iptables -L)
          tcp in ssh/20: iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
          tcp on port 80/http: iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
    4.Dropping/Blocking Traffic
          Drop packets- iptables -A INPUT -j DROP
    5.Editing IPtables
          Append: sudo iptables -I INPUT 1 -i lo -j ACCEPT
          Append: iptables -I FORWARD 1 -i lo -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
          Delete all rules: iptables -J
          DROP from a particular ip: iptables -A INPUT -s 192.168.0.1 -j DROP

