NETWORK RECANNISSANCE TOOLS

1.WHOIS
Query and response protocol that gives you the information of domain registrant
and registrar. Available as the utility in Linux systems.
The important information that attackers look for: Email, registry expiry date, update date, registrant information
Attacks possible: domain hijacking, phishing, information gathering through social engineering
It is searcher for an object in a WHOIS database.WHOIS is a query and response protocol that is widely used for quering database that store registerd users of an internet resource,such as domain name or ip address.
      Install WHOIS - sudo apt install whois
      ->whois tsec.edu
      options: -h : Host...connects to database host,
               -p : Port...when connecting, connects to network
               --help : display help msg & exit
               
 2.DIG
 DIG command stands for Domain Information Groper. 
 It is used for retrieving information about DNS name servers.
 It is used by network administrators. 
 It is used for verifying & trouble shooting DNS problems & to perform DNS lookups. 
 Dig command replaces older tools such as nslookup & the host. Eg. dig www.google.com.
      ->Basic - dig yahoo.com
      ->Short - ig yahoo.com +short
      ->NameServer Record - dig yahoo.com -t ns
      ->Mailserver list - dig yahoo.com -t mx
      
3.TRACEROUTE
Prints the route that a packet takes to reach the host. 
This command is useful when you want to know about the route and about all the hops that a packet takes.
Traceroute, by default, measures 30 hops of 60-byte packets.
If a packet is not acknowledged within the expected timeout, an asterisk is displayed.
eg: traceroute www.google.com
      Install Traceroute - sudo apt install traceroute
      ->Basic - traceroute www.google.com
      ->Hops(20) - traceroute -m 20 www.google.com
      ->Uses ICMP for tracerouting - traceroute -T www.google.com
      ->Uses TCP SYN for tracerouting - traceroute -I www.yahoo.com

4.NIKTO
Web vulnerability scanner, Find vulnerabilities of websites and attacks possible for them and their solutions
Nikto is an open-source web server scanner which performs comprehensive tests against web servers for multiple items. 
You can use Nikto with any web servers like Apache, Nginx, IHS, OHS, Litespeed, and so on. 
Nikto can check for server configuration items such as the presence of multiple index files, 
http server options, and will attempt to identify installed web servers and software. 
Items and plugins scanned by Nikto are frequently updated and can be automatically updated.
eg: nikto -h 128.199.222.244
      Installation: sudo apt-get install nikto
      ->nikto -h google.com
      
5.DMITRY
Dmitry is a free and open-source tool available on GitHub.
The tool is used for information gathering. 
Dmitry stands for DeepMagic Information Gathering Tool.
It’s a command-line tool, Using Dmitry tool You can collect information about the target, 
this information can be used for social engineering attacks.
It can be used to gather a number of valuable pieces of information.
DMitry has the ability to perform TCP port scan on host targets,
search subdomain on a target host, whois lookup, E-mail address search on target hosts.
Dmitry Tool can be used to =>>
*Search subdomains of the target,
*Find open ports of the target system,perform TCP scan,
*With netcraft service to get the target information such as operating system, web server details, web host details, hosting service details, etc.
*With whois service to get the target information such as registered domain, name, address, the contact information of the person who registered it.
*Get email addresses that are associated with the domain of the target.
      Install: sudo apt install dmitry
      =>Command for whois lookup, to retrieve netcraft info, search for subdomains,search for email addresses -
          dmitry -wnse -o dmitry-info.txt yahoo.com
      =>Command for port scanning(TCPPORTSCAN,saves in file info.txt) - 
          dmitry -pb -o dmitry-portscaninfo.txt tsec.edu

6.THE HARVESTER
The Harvester is a tool that was developed in python. Using this you can gather information like 
emails, subdomains, hosts, employee names, open ports and banners from different public sources like 
search engines, PGP key servers, and SHODAN computer database.
Format: theharvester -d [domain name] -b [search engine name / all ][options][parameters]

 
      



