//NMAP
  Nmap can open ports, perform OS fingerprinting, do a ping scan, tcp port scan, udp port scan, etc.
  A port scan is a series of messages sent by someone attempting to break into a computer to learn which computer network services, 
  each associated with a "well-known" port number, the computer provides. 
  Port scanning, a favourite approach of computer cracker, gives the assailant an idea where
  to probe for weaknesses. Essentially, a port scan consists of sending a message to each port, 
  one at a time. The kind of response received indicates whether the port is used and can therefore be probed for weakness.
  Nmap (“Network Mapper”) is an open source tool for network exploration and security auditing. 
  It was designed to rapidly scan large networks,although it works fine against single hosts.
  
  The state is either open, filtered, closed, or unfiltered.
  
  The output from Nmap is a list of scanned targets, 
  with supplemental information on each depending on the options used. 
  Key among that information is the “interesting ports table”. 
  That table lists the port number and protocol, service name, and state.
  
  Basic syntax: nmap -s[alphabet] [ip address/website]
  Options:
      T: To form tcp connection
      S: For Syn scan
      F: packets with Fin flag is set.
      N: Null
      X: Xmas 
      P: Ping
      A: Ack
     -p:ports/port nos
      V: Version Control
     -O: OS Fingerprinting
     -A: VersionControl + OSFingerprinting
  Commands:
    1.nmap -sT ipadress
    TCP CONNECT SCAN:form tcp connection. port scanning...makes all ports open.
    2.nmap -sS ipadress
    TCP SYN SCAN:3 way handshake happens...syn,syn+ack,ack(syn is dropped).
    3.nmap -sF ipaddress
    TCP FIN SCAN:closed ports should recieve & Open ports must drop. Packets with only Fin flag is set.
    4.nmap -sN ipaddress
    TCP NULL SCAN:use to identify listening TCP ports. A Null Scan is a series of TCP packets that contain a sequence number of 0 and no set flags.
    If open port, no response...if closed port RST packet will be recieved.
    5.nmap -sX ipaddress
    XMAS SCAN:sets the FIN, URG and PUSH flags are set. Drop packets if recieving port is Open.
    6.nmap -sP IP address 
    PING SWEEP:This scan type lists the hosts within the specified range that responded to a ping. 
    It allows you to detect which computers are online, rather than which ports are open.
    7.nmap -sA IP address 
    ACK SCAN:sends ACK packets to a host. To detrmine firewall-Stateless if SYN packets & Stateful if ACK packets.
    If RST comes back, the port is classified "unfiltered",  
    If nothing comes back, the port is said to be "filtered", that is, the firewall prevented the RST coming back from the port. 
    8.nmap -p23 ipaddress (scans specific port)
      nmap -p23-443 ipaddress (scans ports ranging from 23 to 443)
    SCANNING RANGE OF PORTS: Scanning at ports
    9.nmap -sV -p 1-80 192.168.1.1/24
    VERSION CONTROL:Version Detection collects information about the specific service running on an open port, including the product name and version number.
    -sV enables Version control while -A enables both OS Fingerprinting & Version control
    10.nmap -O ipaddress
    OS Fingerprinting:sends a series of TCP and UDP packets to the remote host
    
    
    
    
